- [Instructor] Okay, let's take a look
at the customized option of ignoring certain properties.
One of these we've already seen
in one of our earlier videos.
We've already looked at the property visibility,
where we had talked about certain combinations,
and one of them was what happens
when you apply the "transient" modifier.
So we know that when you apply transient modifier
to any field, then that field is going
to be skipped during serialization, okay?
So that's the first option that you have with you
if you want to ignore a particular property.
In addition to that, you can also add compile time,
use the JsonbTransient annotation.
Either you apply it directly on the field,
or on the getter/setter.
So let's check that annotation out.
Let's say, on the Product class,
we want to make sure that "shippingCompany"
is not a part of the generated JSON.
Let's say that's what we want to do.
So in that case, I'm going to say, JsonbTransient.
That's the annotation that I'm going to apply
on the "shippingCompany" property, okay?
And now let's go ahead, let's make a test class.
Test, let's say, IgnoreProperties.
The main method, yes, lets go to the last test class,
we already have everything set there,
the data for the product, so I'm just going to grab the,
all the strategy maybe, yes.
And let's get hold of this data.
And let's come back to TestIgnoreProperties
on line number 16.
I'm going to copy that.
This is just the mock data
that we are trying to create, nothing more.
Okay, and once we do that,
we also can pick up the lines in their test class,
which was trying to write the object to JSON.
So lines number 29 will be create the b for JSON instance,
and then we call the two adjacent API.
So let's grab those two lines, 29 and 30.
Come back to our TestIgnoreProperties class,
and paste them on line 28.
However, we do not want the ObjectMapper.
We just want an empty jsonb instance,
which is created using the Create API,
not the overloaded version of Create API.
So I'm going to get rid of this, okay?
Let's run this and see.
Okay, so since we did not take the config object,
you're not going to get the formatting, okay?
So let's go ahead and take this.
Go to JSONLint and observe the output.
Validate JSON, yeah.
Now do you see, that under every product
that has got information, I do not see
the shipping company at all.
Do you see that?
There's no product which has got
the shipping company listed at all.
So that's how you can ignore a certain property
when you want, to serialize it.
Now this annotation that we have applied,
is, of course, on the field level, right?
So you're on the Product class,
we actually applied it on the field level.
However, you can apply it eve on the getter or the setter.
So let's see how it behaves when you apply it on the getter.
So let's go to getShippingCompany down there.
Yeah that's when the getter method for the shipping company,
and just before the getter method, on line 61,
I'm going to paste that annotation, okay?
And then let's see what happens.
So this is the JsonbTransient annotation
that we have applied on the getter,
now let's go back to the testing class,
and let's go down,
and let's say
that we are taking this into a string.
Let's take this into a string,
instead of printing it out of the consoles.
And we'll just say String result
equal to the serialized output.
And let's print that.
So I actually took it in a variable,
because I also want to deserialize it, okay,
which is why I took it in a variable.
Okay, and the next line,
we'll deserialize the products data, okay?
So how will we do that?
We have to make sure that we have the same instance.
This is the one.
Copy that, come to line 34, and then say "fromjson",
and then you can, given the result, okay?
It will expect a type,
so this is a generics list
so again the same mechanism that we applied last time.
ArrayList, of Product, okay?
And then on that you say getClass and getGEnericSuperclass.
The output of this will be List of Products.
And then we just print the deserialized products.
Okay.
So what we've done
is we've applied the jsonb transient annotation
on the getter.
And this time we have also deserialized
so that we understand the difference
of that particular annotation when it comes to serialization
and deserialization, both.
Let's run this.
Okay.
So when it tried to serialize, that was output.
So under that you do not see the shipping company at all.
So since the annnotation was laid out on the getter,
while it was doing the serialization,
the shipping company property will never be included.
And because of that,
when it was trying to deserialize,
do you see that every product has shipping company
set to null?
Because it never found the value for this particular key
in the json representation.
So when it tried to deserialize it couldn't get a value
so it sent it to the default value of its data type
and its data type is null.
Right?
If you, however,
apply this annotation in your setter meters.
So let's cut it out from here
and let's go the second meter, line 65
and paste it there.
And then let's see what happens.
So I'm going to run this again.
So when it tried to serialize,
yes the shipping company was good
and every product's shipping company was definitely going
to go inside the json document.
However, we specifically mentioned
that it should not consider the shipping company
when it was trying to deserialize the json.
And that's exactly why everywhere now,
the shipping company is set to null.
Okay?
So this is what it is.
Whenever you have to have it on getter
it will be considered for serialization.
But if it's on setter
then it will not be considered for deserialization.
But if you put it on the field,
then it will not be considered for
both serialization and deserialization.
Let's do both the cases even on the field level.
Let's cut this out.
Because when we say it on the field level,
we only saw for serialization.
So let's check it out for both.
So again back to line number 20 over there and now test.
Okay, so now when you put it on the field level,
you do not have the shipping company
either on the serialization neither on the deserialization.
In both the cases, it is not going to be considered at all.
We'll see the .withPropertyVisibilityStrategy API call
in the next video.